Bea-Haydee skeleton blog post (#552)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2023-05-23-champions-program-teams/index.md

---
title: "rOpenSci Champions Program Teams: Meet Haydee Svab and Beatriz Milz"
author:
  - Haydee Svab

>   - Beatriz Milz

Reviewer: Need author files

> date: '2023-05-23'

Reviewer: Reminder to tweak date and folder name as needed

tags:
  - community
  - champions program
featured: true
description: "Introducing Champions and Mentors - Haydee Svab and Beatriz Milz"
---

*We designed the [rOpenSci Champions Program](/champions/) with a mentorship aspect. Mentoring plays a significant role in the growth and development of both mentors and mentees alike. In our program, each Champion has a mentor who accompanies them during their training and development of their project.*

*In this series of blog posts, we introduce you to the ten teams of this first cohort and what they will be working on in the program.*

Meet **Haydee Svab** and **Beatriz Milz** both from Brazil!

## Haydee Svab - Champion

{{< figure src = "/img/team/haydee-svab-mentee.jpeg" class = "pull-left" width = "300" alt = "Profile photo of Haydee Svab" caption = "<center><strong>Haydee Svab</strong></center>">}}

> I'm Haydee Svab, graduated in civil engineering, master of science - speciality transport and planning engineering. For the last few years I've been working as a researcher and consultant in my own company, ASK-AR. Our main projects deal with data analysis, smart cities, urban mobility and gender perspective. I was born and have always lived in Brazil, more specifically in São Paulo, where I founded the local RLadies chapter together with other amazing women. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I'm Haydee Svab, graduated in civil engineering, master of science - speciality transport and planning engineering. For the last few years I've been working as a researcher and consultant in my own company, ASK-AR. Our main projects deal with data analysis, smart cities, urban mobility and gender perspective. I was born and have always lived in Brazil, more specifically in São Paulo, where I founded the [local RLadies chapter](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-sao-paulo/) together with other amazing women. 
```

> I'm Haydee Svab, graduated in civil engineering, master of science - speciality transport and planning engineering. For the last few years I've been working as a researcher and consultant in my own company, ASK-AR. Our main projects deal with data analysis, smart cities, urban mobility and gender perspective. I was born and have always lived in Brazil, more specifically in São Paulo, where I founded the [local RLadies chapter](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-sao-paulo/) together with other amazing women. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm Haydee Svab, graduated in civil engineering, master of science - specialty transport and planning engineering. For the last few years I've been working as a researcher and consultant in my own company, ASK-AR. Our main projects deal with data analysis, smart cities, urban mobility and gender perspective. I was born and have always lived in Brazil, more specifically in São Paulo, where I founded the [local R-Ladies chapter](https://www.meetup.com/rladies-sao-paulo/) together with other amazing women. 
```

Despite loving and  professionally working with the R language, I don't know how to make packages - and I always wanted to make one, with data and model derived from my master's dissertation. So, I saw in the Champion Program the opportunity to make that wish come true. 

> Additionally, within the context of rOpenSci community, I recognize that the technical ability to create packages and its daily use can induce and facilitate the reuse and diffusion of codes from projects and initiatives that I am part of, be it R-Ladies or professional consultancy projects. Those will for sure benefit the R community, that will be able to leverage such packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, within the context of rOpenSci community, I recognize that the technical ability to create packages and their daily use can induce and facilitate the reuse and diffusion of codes from other projects and initiatives that I am part of, be it R-Ladies or professional consultancy projects. Those will for sure benefit the R community, which will be able to leverage such packages.
```

> Finally, I am super excited for the learning period we will have and to get to know better and contribute to the rOpenSci community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, I am super excited for the learning period we will have and to better get to know and contribute to the rOpenSci community.
```

</br>

## Beatriz Milz - Mentor

{{< figure src = "/img/team/beatriz-milz-mentor.jpeg" class = "pull-left" width = "300" alt = "Profile photo of Beatriz Milz" caption = "<center><strong>Beatriz Milz</strong></center>">}}

My name is Beatriz Milz, and I am an R-Lady from São Paulo - Brazil. I am currently doing a Ph.D. in Environmental Science and also work as a Data Scientist and an R teacher at Curso-R. 

> I am a tidyverse instructor certified by RStudio, and a co-organizer of communities and events, such as R-Ladies São Paulo, Latin-R, and satRday São Paulo. I also [have a blog](https://beamilz.com/) where I write about R: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I am a tidyverse instructor certified by RStudio, and a co-organizer of communities and events, such as [R-Ladies São Paulo](https://rladies-sp.org/), [Latin-R](https://latin-r.com/), and [satRday São Paulo](https://saopaulo2019.satrdays.org/). I also [have a blog](https://beamilz.com/) where I write about R.
```

> I am a tidyverse instructor certified by RStudio, and a co-organizer of communities and events, such as [R-Ladies São Paulo](https://rladies-sp.org/), [Latin-R](https://latin-r.com/), and [satRday São Paulo](https://saopaulo2019.satrdays.org/). I also [have a blog](https://beamilz.com/) where I write about R.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am a tidyverse instructor certified by Posit, and a co-organizer of communities and events, such as [R-Ladies São Paulo](https://rladies-sp.org/), [Latin-R](https://latin-r.com/), and [satRday São Paulo](https://saopaulo2019.satrdays.org/). I also [have a blog](https://beamilz.com/) where I write about R.
```

I will be a mentor in this edition of the Champions program, and I hope to help 
participants to create R packages and also review them for rOpenSci!

> _We're excited to have both Haydee and Bea be part of the Champions program. We are very exited for the progress they have in the project. Stay-tuned for the next series of introductions._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_We're excited to have both Haydee and Bea be part of the Champions program. We are looking forward to seeing how this project progresses. Stay tuned for the next series of introductions._
```
